If the player hits the ball and advances to a base without a fielding
error or an out being recorded, then that is called a "base hit". The
bases must be reached in order counterclockwise, starting with first
base. After hitting the ball the batter may advance as many bases as
possible. An advance to first base on the one hit is a "single", to
second base is a "double", to third base is a "triple", and to home
plate is a "home run". Home runs are usually scored by hitting the ball
over the outfield fence, but may be scored on a hit which does not go
over the fence. A home run includes any ball that bounces off a fielder
and goes over the fence in fair-territory (depending upon association
and local league rules) or that hits the foul pole. If a batted ball
bounces off a fielder (in fair territory) and goes over the fence in
foul territory, or if it goes over the fence at a location that is
closer than the official distance, the batter is awarded a double
instead.

If a runner becomes entitled to the base where another runner is
standing, the latter runner must advance to the next base. For example,
if a player hits the ball and there is a runner on first, the runner on
first must try to advance to second because the batter-runner is
entitled to first base. If the batter reaches first base without being
put out, then that player can then be forced to run towards second base
the next time a ball is driven into fair territory. That is because the
player must vacate first base to allow the next batter to reach it, and
consequently can only go to second base, where a force out may be
recorded.

Runners may advance at risk to be put out: on a hit by another player;
after a fly ball has been caught, provided the player was touching a
base at the time the ball was first touched or after; or (in fastpitch)
automatically, when a pitch is delivered illegally.

Runners advance without liability to be put out: when a walk advances
another player to the runner's current base; or automatically in certain
special circumstances described below.

In the recent years, the NCAA rules changed when concerning the
batters feet while in the box. The rule now states that as long as any
part of the batter's foot is in the box the ball will stay live. It is
not until the batter's entire foot is out of the box, that the play will
be declared dead and the batter called out. The SEC (college ball),
however, claims that if any part of the batter's foot is out of the box
when she makes contact, she is out and the play is dead.