The offensive team sends one "batter" at a time to home plate to use the bat
to try to hit the pitch forward into fair territory. The order the
players bat in, known as the "batting order", must stay the same
throughout the game. Substitutes and replacements must bat in the same
position as the player they are replacing. In co-ed, male and female
batters must alternate.

The batter stands facing the pitcher inside a "batter's box" (there is
one on each side of the plate to compensate for either right- or
left-handed batters). The bat is held with both hands, over the
shoulder, and away from the pitcher (90-degree angle). The ball is
usually hit with a full swinging motion in which the bat may move
through more than 360 degrees. The batter usually steps forward with the
front foot, the body weight shifts forward, as the batter simultaneously
swings the bat. A bunt is another form of
batting. There are different types, including a sacrifice
bunt, or slap bunt.
There is also regular slapping in which a batter takes position on the
left side of the plate and usually stands in the back of the box, but it
is possible form anywhere. The batter takes a step back with their
leading foot as the pitcher is in the middle of the windup, crosses over
with their back foot and runs toward first base while they swing. There
are many different types of slapping and they all vary depending on the
batter and their strengths. There are half swing slaps, fake slaps, and
full swing slaps. Each type of slap has a different purpose or goal. No
matter what way the batter hits the ball, they *must* be inside the
batter's box when the bat makes contact with the ball. If the batter
steps out of the box while swinging, the batter is out.

Once the ball is hit into fair territory, the runner must try to advance
to first base or beyond. While running to first base, the batter is a
"batter-runner". When she safely reaches first (see below) she becomes a
"base-runner" or "runner".

A batted ball hit high in the air is a "fly ball". A fly ball hit upward
at an angle greater than 45 degrees is a "pop fly". A batted ball driven
in the air through the infield at a height at which an infielder could
play it if in the right position is a "line drive". A batted ball which
hits the ground within the diamond is a "ground ball". If a batted ball
hits a player or a base, it is considered to have hit the ground.

A batter can also advance to first if hit by the pitch. If a batter is
hit by the pitch it is a dead ball and she is rewarded first base. She
must make an attempt to get out of the way and it is the umpire's
judgmental call whether the batter attempted to move. If he feels the
batter could have moved and avoided getting hit he or she will not
reward the batter first base and the pitch will be recorded as a ball.

### Getting the batter out

The batter is out if: the batter accrues three strikes (a "strikeout");
a ball hit by the batter is caught before touching the ground (a
"flyout"); the batter goes to a base that is already tagged ("tagged" or
"tag play"); a fielder holding the ball touches a base which is the only
base towards which the batter may run before the batter arrives there (a
"force out" or "force play"); or in certain special circumstances. There
is also a not so common occurrence when the batter has two strikes and
swings at strike three. If the catcher does not catch the ball, the
batter has the chance to run to first base and the catcher can throw the
batter out at first base.