The team with the most runs after seven innings wins the game. The last
(bottom) half of the seventh inning or any remaining part of the seventh
inning is not played if the team batting second is leading.

If the game is tied, play usually continues until a decision is reached,
by using the international tie-breaker rules. Starting in the top of
first extra inning, the batting team starts with a baserunner on second
base, which is the player who is the last available to bat (in other
words, the batter who last took their position in the batter's box;
regardless whether they were the last out or another runner was put
out).

In games where one team leads by a large margin, the run ahead
rule may come into play in order to reduce any
potential embarrassment of weaker teams. In fastpitch and modified
pitch, a margin of 15 runs after 3 innings, 10 after 4, or 7 after 5 is
sufficient for the leading team to be declared the winner. In slow
pitch, the margin is 20 runs after 4 innings or 15 after 5 innings.
In the NCAA, the
required margin after 5 innings is 8 runs. The mercy rule takes effect
at the end of an inning. Thus, if the team batting first is ahead by
enough runs for the rule to come into effect, the team batting second
has their half of the inning to narrow the margin.

A game may be lost due to a "forfeit". A score of 7â€“0 for the team not
at fault is recorded (generally one run is awarded for each inning that
would have been played). A forfeit may be called due to any of these
circumstances: if a team does not show up to play; if one side refuses
to continue play; if a team fails to resume play after a suspension of
play ends; if a team uses tactics intended to unfairly delay or hasten
the game; if a player removed from the game does not leave within one
minute of being instructed to do so; if a player that cannot play enters
the game and one pitch has been thrown; if a team does not have, for
whatever reason, enough players to continue; or if after warning by the
umpire, a player continues to intentionally break the rules of the game.
This last rule is rarely enforced as players who break rules after being
warned are usually removed.

The plate umpire may suspend play because of darkness or anything that
puts players or spectators in danger. If four innings have been played
and a team is in the lead, the game is recorded as it stands. If fewer
than four innings have been played, the game is not considered a
"regulation" game. Games that are not regulation or are tied when
suspended are resumed from the point of suspension. If it is a
championship game, it is replayed from the beginning. Team rosters may
be changed.