Each team wears a distinctive uniform. The uniform may include a cap, a
shirt displaying team colors and the players' number, sliding
undershorts/compression shorts (optional), socks, and pants/athletic
shorts. The team is required to have all of its members wear the same
uniform.

Caps, visors, and headbands are optional for female players, and have to
be the same color. Caps are mandatory for male players. A fielder who
chooses to wear a helmet or face mask is not required to wear a cap.

Many players use "sliding shorts", otherwise known as compression shorts
in other sports. These can be outfitted with a pouch for fitting a
protective cup for male players. These shorts
also help to protect the upper thigh when sliding into a base. "Sliders"
may also be worn for similar protection. These are somewhat padded
shinguards that extend usually from the ankle to the knee of the wearer
and wrap all the way around the leg(s). They protect the shin, calf,
etc. from getting bruised or damaged while sliding into home plate and
make it much more comfortable to slide
into the plate. Some male players use long, baseball-style pants.
However, some female players now wear a shorter version of baseball
pants.

At the back of the uniform, an Arabic numeral from numbers 0 through 99
must be visible. Numbers such as 02 and 2 are considered identical.
Also, on the back of the uniforms players' names are optional.

All players are required to wear shoes. They may have cleats or spikes.
The spikes must extend less than away from the sole. Rounded metal
spikes are illegal, as are ones made from hard plastic or other
synthetic materials. High school athletes are sometimes permitted to
wear metal cleats, such as in Ohio.

Many recreational leagues prohibit the use of metal cleats or spikes to
reduce the possible severity of injuries when a runner slides feet-first
into a fielder. At all youth (under 15) levels, in co-ed (the official
terminology for mixed teams) slow pitch, and in modified pitch, metal
spikes are usually not allowed.