For fastpitch softball, the traditional pitching style is a "windmill"
motion, extending the arm above the body and releasing the ball at about
hip level at maximum speeds. Strength acquired in the underhand windmill
motion is based on the open-to-close hip motion.

Pitches may reach high speeds. In girls' fastpitch, depending on the age
group, pitchers can throw from or more. The fastest pitch ever recorded
was at by Monica Abbott on June 16, 2012. Male
pitching can reach speeds around . To compare, MLB players average
around but can reach speeds up to . Although slower than baseball
pitches, the shorter pitching distance in fastpitch results in batters
having a comparable time to react to a pitch as in baseball.

Throwing fastballs for speed is not always the most important factor in
fastpitch softball. Pitchers can throw breaking balls that move late in
their flight, fooling batters into swinging at pitches outside the
strike zone or, conversely, not swinging at pitches that pass through
the strike zone. These include balls that break inwards (screwball) and
outwards (curveball) on right-handed batters, starting off the plate and
moving into the strike zone or starting towards the strike zone and
moving off the plate. There are also riseballs that break upwards,
frequently starting in the strike zone and ending above it, and
dropballs that break downward. Another common pitch is the change-up, an
intentionally slow pitch that initially appears to be a fastball,
causing the batter to swing too early and miss or foul off the pitch.
Rarer is the knuckleball, which moves slowly and erratically. Pitchers
use deception as a primary tactic for getting batters out as the
reaction times are approximately half a second or less. At higher levels
of play, pitchers aim for the inner and outer corners of the plate when
throwing fastballs and breaking pitches. Pitchers also vary the location
of the pitch by height to make hitting the ball even harder for the
batter. Pitchers also throw knuckleballs which are generally slower and
move erratically.

A "crow hop" is an illegal pitch that occurs when the pitcher pushes
with the pivot foot from somewhere other than the pitching plate. This
often involves jumping from the pitching plate and replanting somewhere
in front of the pitching plate. For an illegal pitch, the umpire extends
his left arm straight out to the side and clenches his fist. This
results in a ball being awarded to the batter, and any runners on base
advancing to the next base. If the batter swings at the pitch that is
deemed illegal and puts the ball in play, the offense is given the
option to accept the results of the play or accept the penalty listed
previously (exception: if the play results in the batter and any runners
all advancing at least one base, the play stands and no option is
given). The image to the right demonstrates a legal pitch as the
push-off foot has not left the ground. The ball must be released
simultaneously with the lead leg step.