In fastpitch softball, it is common for teams to use a designated player
in the lineup; this player, which functions like the designated
hitter in baseball, hits in place of one
of the position players but does not play defense.

Unlike a designated hitter, a designated player can also become a
temporary defensive substitute, and the player substituted by the
designated player can return to their original position at a later point
in the game. However, the only player that can be substituted as an
offensive replacement (pinch runner or pinch hitter) is the defensive
player the designated player originally replaced, known as the "flex".

At any time, the designated player can be substituted back into the
lineup in the place of the flex player, but once taken out, the
designated player cannot take the place of any other player in the
lineup.

#### Short fielder

In some leagues and organizations, four outfield players are utilized by
each team. The extra outfielder is sometimes called the short fielder
and plays somewhere behind second base, adjusting position based on the
handedness or other characteristics of the batter, while the regular
center fielder plays a considerably deeper position. The short fielder
used as such can take away a batting strategy in softball, which is to
hit soft liners over the pitcher.

However, some teams prefer to use the fourth outfielder like the others,
with the center field position being shared between two players known as
the left-center fielder and the right-center fielder. In this case the
four outfielders are spaced equidistantly and play at roughly the same
depth.