The outfielders are players that cover the
grassy area behind the infield. Outfielders are named for their
positions in the field relative to home plate. Traditional outfield
positions include a left fielder, a center fielder, and a right fielder.
Each player has a specific job as being an outfielder.

#### Right fielder

The right fielder's position is on the right side of the field, in the
opening between the first and second basemen, when looking at the field
from behind home plate. The right fielder is part of a group of two
other fielders that make up the outfield. The right fielder has a
multitude of jobs over the course of a softball game. Generally,
outfielders act as a back-up to the infielders when they make plays or
if the ball is hit past the infield. Right field has a particular job of
covering the area behind first base if the ball is to be thrown in that
area. Right field is meant to cover this area if the ball gets past the
first baseman. This will prevent base-runners from advancing to unwanted
bases. Traditionally in the game of softball, the right fielder will
have the strongest arm out of the two other outfielders. The right
fielder must have the strongest arm because they have the furthest
possibility to throw the ball. A right fielder will throw the ball to
each base more than the other outfielders will because of their position
in respect to the bases.

#### Center fielder

The center fielder's position is in the middle of the outfield directly
behind second base when looking at the field from behind home plate. The
center fielder is part of a group of two other fielders that make up the
outfield. Center fielders technically serve as the "captains" of the
outfield. They are and should be the most vocal in effectively
communicating with their outfielders. Since the outfielders are further
apart from each other, it can be hard to hear each other. The center
fielder covers the area behind second base if the ball is going to be
thrown in that direction. By covering this area, if the ball does get
past the infielder, the center fielder can prevent base-runners from
advancing to unwanted bases. Within the game of softball, the center
fielder is traditionally the fastest of the three outfielders. The
center fielder needs to be the quickest because of the large area of
field they must cover. Besides being a quick player, the center fielder
must have a strong throwing arm because of the distance between the
player and home plate.

#### Left fielder

The left fielder's position is on the left side of the outfield behind
the third baseman when looking at the field from behind home plate. The
left fielder is part of a group of two other fielders that make up the
outfield. Generally, outfielders act as a back-up to the infielders when
they make plays or if the ball is hit past the infield. The left fielder
must field their position, but also cover the area behind third base if
a ball is thrown or hit in that direction. The left fielder covers this
area in the case that the ball will pass the infielders. The left
fielder can then prevent the base runner from advancing to unwanted
bases. Besides covering certain areas of the field, the left fielder
must be the smartest of the outfielders. In the left field position, the
player has full view of the field, the players, the base-runners, and
the batter. The left fielder must constantly be aware of the situation
on the field and know what must be done in different circumstances. More
advanced levels require the left fielder to be able to field the ball
during "slap hit" situations by playing shallow. Left fielders must also
play a role in any run down situation between third base and home plate
or back up any plays that happen at third base in case of an overthrow.