One reason for the popularity of softball is the ease of modification of
its rules, thereby allowing the game to be adapted to a variety of skill
levels. For example, in some slow pitch softball leagues a batter starts
at bat with a count of one ball one strike. In some leagues, the number
of home runs that can be hit by a team are limited. In other leagues,
stealing of bases is prohibited. Some groups allow for a more defensive
game by making home plate a force out for first base. This reduces
scoring evenly on both sides, and allows for some margin of error.

Co-ed leagues sometimes adopt live-play rules intended to reduce gender
inequality, under the assumption that men will be generally more
powerful. In most co-ed or mixed gender leagues there is something
called an encroachment line. This requires the outfielders to stay
behind a line till the ball is hit. If an outfielder passes in front of
this line before the female batter hits a fair ball, the batter will
receive a single base or the result of the play, and the base runners
will advance accordingly. The line will be 180 feet from home plate.
One possible rule requires male batters to "switch hit". Some
leagues even use different balls for male and female batters. While
these modified rules are common, there are questions as to their place
in modern adult sports.

Some leagues require teams to use limited flight softballs. These
softballs, when hit, will not go as far as regular softballs. Other
leagues limit the number of runs which can be scored in an inning. Five
is a common limit.

By allowing these and other modifications, softball can be enjoyed by
children, teenagers, and adults. Senior leagues with players over the
age of 60 are not uncommon.

An example of a rule modification is the "offensive pitcher" (or "self
pitch") often found in informal games where the emphasis is on the
social rather than the competitive aspects of the game. The pitcher aids
the batter by attempting to give the easiest pitch to hit. There are no
walks, and a batter is normally given a fixed number of pitches to
attempt to hit (usually 3 or 4). The batter is considered to strike out
if the batter fails to hit the ball into fair territory after the given
number of pitches. The pitcher does not act as a fielder, and a rule is
often made that if a batted ball touches the pitcher, the batter is out.

In some leagues the number of pitches to walk or strikeout can be
reduced. For instance, one strike is an out, and two balls is a walk.
This is common in leagues where doubleheaders are played, or in late
season leagues when reduced daylight is an issue. It results in shorter
games, as players are more apt to swing, even at marginal pitches,
rather than risk striking out on one pitch.

Many leagues also include a second first base immediately adjacent to
the main one. This is usually orange and the batter running through
first base is supposed to run straight through it. This minimizes the
chances of a collision. By the same token some leagues have an alternate
home plate and rule that plays at home are always force plays. In these
cases there is typically a white line drawn approximately 1/3 of the way
down the baseline that is considered a point of no return. This is
designed to reduce the "Pickle" which can put a great strain on the
ankles and knees of older baserunners.
