If there is a "wild throw" (or "overthrow") in which the ball goes out
of the designated play area, each runner is awarded two bases from the
last base touched at the time of the throw. Retreating past a made base,
negates the advance to that base. If a fielder intentionally carries a
ball out of play, two bases are awarded from the time the ball leaves
the field of play. If this is unintentional (fielder's momentum), the
award is one base. If on a tag play, the fielder loses control (after
establishing control) of the ball and it leaves the field of play, one
base is awarded.

If there is a "wild pitch" in which the ball goes out of the designated
play area, each runner is awarded one base from the base occupied at the
time of the pitch.

In fastpitch, runners may try to steal bases by running to the next base
on the pitch and reaching it before being tagged with the ball. The
point at which a runner can steal a base varies. In fastpitch, the
runner is allowed to begin stealing a base when the ball is released
from the "windmill" pitching motion, but until recently, stealing was
forbidden in slow pitch because a runner has the opportunity to get a
larger head start while the slow pitch is making its way to the batter.
As a result of rule changes initiated by the Independent Softball
Association which later made its way to the Amateur Softball Association
and the International Softball Federation in the 21st century, most
levels of slow pitch permit stealing bases, provided the runner starts
when the ball either touches the ground or crosses the plate. This rule
encourages pitchers to be more responsible with the pitch and catchers
to play defense, as balls which miss the catcher are now grounds to have
stolen bases.

No matter what level of play, all baserunners must keep one foot on a
base until the pitcher throws the ball or until the ball crosses the
front edge of home plate (depends on association).

In fastpitch, if the catcher drops strike three (a "passed ball") with
no less than two outs, the batter can attempt to run to first base if
first base is unoccupied. The catcher must then attempt to throw the
ball to first base ahead of the runner. If he or she cannot, the runner
is safe. With two outs, the batter can attempt to run to first whether
or not it is already occupied.

Depending on the league in slow pitch only a foul ball with two strikes
on the batter means the batter is out. Stealing in 16-inch softball is
severely restricted, as a runner may only steal the base in front of
them if it is open, and if they are thrown at, *Ã  la* pickoff move or
snap throw. This results in many inexperienced players being thrown or
doubled off when they attempt to advance on a wild pickoff at another
baserunner.